Extend DDL/MDL info (#20329)
pingcap/docs: mysql-schema/mysql-schema-tidb-mdl-view.md

---
title: mysql.tidb_mdl_view
summary: Learn about the `tidb_mdl_view` table in the `mysql` schema.
---

# `mysql.tidb_mdl_view`

> This table shows information aboud [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table shows the information about the [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) views.
```

```sql
DESC mysql.tidb_mdl_view;
```

The output is as follows:

```
+-------------+-----------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field       | Type            | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+-------------+-----------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| job_id      | bigint          | NO   | PRI  | NULL    |       |
| db_name     | longtext        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| table_name  | longtext        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |

> | query       | longtext        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |

Reviewer 2: Should we clarify the different fields as well?
Looking at https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/metadata-lock/#observability the query is the DDL, and the session ID and SQL_DIGESTS are from the blocking DML queries.

Also there is a mismatch between the lower case names in this table and the UPPER CASE field names in https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/metadata-lock/#observability.

Author: I've updated the other doc as well to match the v8.5.1 behavior.

| session_id  | bigint unsigned | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| start_time  | timestamp(6)    | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| SQL_DIGESTS | varchar(5)      | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+-------------+-----------------+------+------+---------+-------+
7 rows in set (0.00 sec)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Should we also have an example of where it is used, or at least a backlink to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/metadata-lock/#observability ?

Author: On line 8 we link to that information.
